Accessibility statement for the Report an environmental problem service
This service is part of GOV.UK. There's a separate accessibility statement for the main GOV.UK website.
This page only contains information about the Report an environmental problem service, available at https://report-an-environmental-problem.service.gov.uk.
Using this service
This service is run by the Environment Agency. We want as many people as possible to be able to use this service. This means you should, for example, be able to:
change colours, contrast levels and fonts
zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen
get from the start of the service to the end using just a keyboard
get from the start of the service to the end using speech recognition software
listen to the service using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver)
We’ve also made the text in the service as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
How accessible this service is
Users of specific technology may experience the following issues when using the service:
JAWS screen reader software may not read out all page headings in Internet Explorer 11 – this is a known issue with JAWS version 18 or above, we recommend using a different browser to avoid this problem
Dragon speech recognition software – links that reveal hidden text on a page will not respond to the ‘click link’ command, but will respond to ‘click button’ – this is a known issue with the GOV.UK Design System details component
if you do not have JavaScript enabled in your browser, you may not be able to use some features of the service
Additionally, we know some parts of this website are not fully accessible. For example:
some mapping tools are not accessible for those using assistive technology
in some situations, the contrast of colours on maps is not high enough to be legible to all users
What to do if you have difficulty using this service
If you need information on this website in a different format, contact the Environment Agency.
National Customer Contact Centre
Email: enquiries@environment-agency.gov.uk
Telephone: 03708 506 506 (Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm)
Reporting accessibility problems with this service
We want to solve any issues with accessibility as quickly as possible, and work to improve the accessibility of this service wherever we can.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we're not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the Environment Agency.
National Customer Contact Centre
Email: enquiries@environment-agency.gov.uk
Telephone: 03708 506 506 (Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm)
Enforcement procedure
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you're not happy with how we respond to a complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
Contacting us by phone or visiting us in person
You can report an environmental problem by phone.
Environment Agency incident hotline
Telephone: 0800 80 70 60
24-hour service
Find out about call charges
We provide a text relay service for people who are deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
Our offices have audio induction loops, or if you contact us before your visit we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter to help you complete the service in person.
Technical information about this service’s accessibility
The Environment Agency is committed to making this service accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This service is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard.
Non-compliant content
The following content does not meet accessibility requirements:
several sections of map text do not meet the requirements for WCAG 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
zoom controls on the map do not have a descriptive label identifying their function, which does not meet the requirement for WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and labels
the 'Ordnance Survey' copyright notice on the map does not meet the requirements for WCAG 1.4.3 Contrast
time and date inputs have been misapplied with duplicate IDs - this may affect how assistive technologies attribute labels and interact with input fields, which does not meet requirement for WCAG 1.3.1 Info and relationships
labels for time and date inputs contain unnecessary and confusing content and symbols, which does not meet requirement for WCAG 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
We already allow users to use the service without using the map, if they wish.
In addition, we plan to fix these issues in the following ways:
offer alternative map layers, including high contrast and satellite views
replace third-party map controls with an in-house developed map application that allows us to add aria labelling to zoom controls and redesign inline elements such as the copyright notice
replace the current multiple time and date inputs occurring on the same page with standalone pages for date and time inputs
update content of labels for time and date inputs
How we tested this service
The service was last tested on 23 April 2025. It was checked for compliance with WCAG 2.2 AA using both automated and manual testing. The tests were carried out by the Digital Accessibility Centre (DAC).
This statement was last updated on 29 April 2025.